- [Instructor] As an API gains adoption
and its usage increases,
it's important to maintain the experience
and to meet the performance demands of its clients.
Often, the operations found on an API are composed
from those made available in a cluster of microservices.
These microservices must remain stable as traffic increases.
Scaling is the first strategy to consider when demand
for a micro-service begins to exceed its capacity.
By design, microservices are intended
to scale easily through features like auto-scaling
that are provided by container orchestrators.
However, auto scaling has its limitations
because constraints such as costs or available resources
may limit the number of microservice instances that are able
to be spun up.
Underlying each container orchestrator is a plane
of host VMs.
Once their capacity is exhausted,
there's nowhere for another container to be deployed.
In some cases, such as a denial of service attack,
you may not even want to scale.
Seeing an increased demand for your API is great,
but it may not be feasible
to allow every client unrestricted consumption of it
because it could bring down the API for all clients.
Throttling the number of requests is one strategy used
to control the amount of API usage by clients.
It is based on the principle that it is better
to deny some traffic to preserve the existing usage,
than to crash the system and have no traffic at all.
At a high level, you can think of throttling
like a speed limit for APIs.
The most basic strategy for throttling an API
is to apply a universal cap on the concurrent number
of requests made to a service for all clients.
This cap is typically placed just below the maximum capacity
for the service.
There's problems with using a universal cap.
It can allow one client to unfairly consume the majority
of the capacity of the microservices.
A better strategy is to create a quota and a rate limit
for each API client.
The quota defines the number of calls permitted by a client
over a long period of time, like a day or a month.
A rate limit focuses on preventing bursts
of concurrent calls over a much shorter timeframe
that could take down the microservice.
In some cases, certain clients may have higher rate limits
and quotas than other clients.
For instance, a first party client
may have a higher rate limit than a third party.
For things like admin tools, we may not want
to apply a throttle at all, since they're used
to resolve issues.
For APIs that are monetized,
you'll see different tiers that are available,
via an API plan that allows consumers to purchase more quota
or an increased rate limit.
Rate limits and quota can also be tracked and enforced
at more granular levels.
Restricting quota by end user can prevent a particular user
from consuming the entirety of a client's quota.
This allows available resources to be fairly assigned
across all users of a client.
When applying this strategy, the claims on a jot can be used
to determine the identity of the end user and the client.
Another effective throttling strategy
is to apply a rate limit and quota
for each particular operation on an API.
API operations normally span multiple microservices.
Each of these microservices
may have their own resource profile
with some consuming more memory and CPU than others.
By having separate throttling limits applied
for each operation,
clients consume less resource intensive operations
more frequently while heavier operations
are made less available to prevent downtime.
Availability often gets overlooked when it comes
to security, especially when it's valid end users
that bring down a service.
Luckily, there are many techniques for throttling your API
that you can choose from
to keep your microservices available.